boston police department officers
detective sergeant
nick walker and detective lieutenant
bobby hayes discover and steal several
shards of gold while on duty
nick buries his share under an orange
tree sapling in his garden
his wife julia thinks that the tree is a
surprise gift and mentions how content
she is with their life together
nick realizes that they do not need the
gold and decides to submit it as
evidence
during a raid later on hayes tells nick
that he can't let him turn in the gold
and kills nick triggering a shootout to
cover up the murder
time stops around nick and he is drawn
into a vortex in the sky
but is suddenly pulled into a room just
before he reaches the top of the vortex
in the afterlife nick finds that he
faces eternal damnation for his thievery
as penance nick is recruited for the
ripd the rest in peace department
who are responsible for finding and
returning souls who refuse to move on to
the afterlife
left unchecked these souls become deados
monsters disguised as humans
and when their souls begin to rot the
environment rots around them
threatening the mortal realm and the
masquerade that keeps mortals unaware of
the afterlife
he is partnered with royce foose roy
pulcifer a former u.s marshal and union
soldier in the american civil war
their first stop is at a cemetery to
watch nick's funeral
and nick attempts to make his presence
known to julia but is not recognized
roy explains that ripd officers are
given new identities and appearances to
prevent them from breaching the
masquerade
nick appears as an elderly chinese man
while roy appears as a beautiful blonde
woman
on his first field mission nick aids roy
in interrogating a suspected dedo and
discovers the perpetrator is in
possession of gold like he and hayes had
stolen
nick and roy submit the gold as evidence
before visiting one of roy's informants
nick tricks the informant into revealing
hayes as his contact
they follow hayes to nick's old house
where he discovers nick's stolen gold
roy and nick track hayes and observe him
handing the gold off to a dedo whom they
stop and interrogate
the dedo overpowers them taking the gold
and transforming into a hulking monster
that leads them on a chase through the
city that attracts the attention of
normal humans and causes a panic
when the two return to ripd headquarters
chief mildred proctor is informed by
eternal affairs that the gold fragments
they found are part of an ancient weapon
called the staff of jericho
which has the power to reverse the flow
of souls from earth to the afterlife
she also receives orders to remove roy
and nick from the case and to suspend
them from active duty due to the
exposure caused by the monsters rampage
roy and nick argue and nick leaves by
himself to try again to reveal himself
to julia
but she is unable to recognize him due
to his altered identity and she flees
roy tails him and they argue
but they finally make amends roy
forgives nick and decides to work with
him to stop whatever hayes is planning
they discover that hayes is a dedo and
arrest him but a confiscated item of his
freezes the whole department
hayes and a group of dedos escape with
the remainder of the gold and assemble
the staff of jericho
intending to use it to remain in the
living world indefinitely
hayes takes julia hostage and stabs her
as a necessary human sacrifice to
activate the staff
a battle ensues pulsifier destroys the
staff of jericho
and nick exacts his revenge on hayes
being critically wounded by the
sacrifice puts julia close enough to
death to see nick for who he is they
reconcile and share a tearful farewell
with nick encouraging julia to continue
living for both of them
later proctor informs nick that julia
will live
she reinstates them both fully though
she adds 53 years to roy's term in the
ripd
due to her revealed affections for him
as a reward
roy also gives nick a new appearance but
he is dismayed to find it is that of a
girl scout